Most likely you have been on a search
for your purpose and it's been a spin
after another spin inside of a cycle of
spin. You think that if you look harder
or if you look at the right place or if
you have the right thought, you're going
to get there and it's going to just pop
up magically and say, "Oh yes, and here
you go." But it never works like that.
Which is why so many people like
yourself have been stuck in it for so
long. And the reason that you can't find
it is because there's a way in which we
look for our purpose that [music]
guarantees it doesn't work. We're going
to give you a little bit of a
perspective on purpose. We're going to
talk about some [music] practical ways
to approach the search so that it
changes all together in a way that's
going to get you exactly where you want
to go, even if you don't know where
that's going to be until after you get
there.
So the good news is that everybody that
I know who's led a meaningful life has
gone through this search for purpose at
some point. So you're not alone in it.
It's not novel. Most of the people that
I know have gone through it somewhere in
their 20s and 30s. But there are some
people I know who were really driven who
really understood their purpose at an
early age. But then 40s and 50s that
chapter of their life was done and now
they're looking for a new chapter of
their life. And some even in their 60s
when they're in retirement, they're
like, "Oh, I I knew what I was doing,
but now I'm retired. What's my purpose
now? what's the thing that's going to
drive me to the next level of life or to
the next portion of life? And so it
happens to all of us. And as soon as you
really see what the search of purpose is
all about, then the search takes care of
itself. It makes it so it's inevitable
for you to get to the place that you
want to go. The only thing you have to
let go of is that you can actually know
where it is that you want to go before
you get there.
So my 15-year-old daughter is really
interested to get into a good college.
And so she said to me the other day, "I
know I have to do something special to
get into a great college, and I've been
searching my whole life to find out what
that special thing is, and I haven't
found it yet." And so I asked her, I
said, "Hey, how are you searching?" She
she's like, "Well, I think about
something and then I wonder, "Oh, is
that the thing?" And then I realize it
might be for a while, but then I'm not
inspired by it. And so then that goes
away. And then I'm sitting there
thinking, looking around, trying to find
stuff, and then maybe that's it. And I
think about it, and then it doesn't
work. And I told her, I said, you know,
that's like looking at 10, 5-year-old
boys and say, which one is going to be
the world champion swimmer?
You can't know until they get in the
pool, until you see how they swim, until
they have a drive, until you see how if
they like water, if they're scared
water, if they have any passion about
swimming. Right? you actually have to go
and investigate the thing to understand
what the outcome is going to be. And so
what you're doing when you're searching
for your purpose is you're taking it
outside of the moment. You're not
actually experimenting with what's going
on in your world. Instead, you're just
running mental model after mental model.
And the problem with each one of those
mental models is you have no idea what
it feels like to do the thing. You only
have a thought of what it would be like
to do the thing. You don't actually know
what it feels like to do the thing.
I got a job in investment banking and I
was like, "Wow, I hate it here. I hate I
hate this." There's one guy who's in
charge. Everybody else is working crazy
hours.
They don't want to do what they're
doing. They want to do the next thing.
Everybody's unhappy. They're a little
bit snappy because they're not getting
enough sleep. And nobody feels deeply
empowered and everybody's like chasing
after the next thing. [music] It just is
miserable. I'm not interested and what I
really want to do is be an artist. So I
started chasing being an artist and it
was seven years of me going ah I got to
be an artist and finally I cajol and
figured out and managed enough where I
was an observing director on a TV show.
So that's a thing where I was observing
the director and how the director was
handling it and I had done my own short
film so hopefully I would then be able
to direct an episode or two and then get
a job directing television. And I was
like this is amazing. So, I do it and
I'm there on set and guess what I found
out? I found out that everybody's
working hard. Everybody's miserable.
Nobody wants to be in their place. They
want to be in the next place. There's
one guy who makes all the decisions.
Everybody's just unhappy. And I looked
around. I said, "Holy crap, this is just
like investment banking." And so, I have
been running for seven years towards an
idea of what I want only to find out
that I was running towards the thing I
was running away from. So in my story,
what I did is I said, "Wow, goodness. If
I if I thought I wanted something that
would make me happy, only to find out it
was not the thing that was going to make
me happy. If it was actually the thing I
was running away from, then what if I
just did whatever was presented to me
and then say yes to the things I enjoyed
and no to the things that I don't enjoy
and not have a preconception of what
that would be."
And so that's what I did. Any
opportunity that was put in front of me,
I said yes. And I did metal working, I
did woodworking, I did this large-scale
video art installation for this rich
guy. I did all sorts of crazy things.
And and then I got so busy that I could
only say yes to the things that were
really exciting to me. And that's what I
did. I just kept on saying yes to the
things that were exciting and just
narrowed down more and more and more. I
said yes to this video art installation
that took all of the art experience and
video experience I had. And then I was
talking to this rich guy and I was
telling him about what I thought was
going to happen with oil and with gold
and what what I thought was going to
happen in the stock market because of my
old experience. And he came to me, he
said, "Wow, you know, you really
understand money and I would love you to
come and work with me." I said, "No,
that doesn't that's not exciting to me.
So, I can't say yes to that." And then
he said, "Well, why don't you think
about exactly what would make you
excited and then come back to me?" Which
is like a huge gift and I'm forever
grateful for this man.
>> [snorts]
>> And so I thought about it and it took me
three, four months and I said, "Oh, what
would excite me is to make a huge
[snorts] change in climate and in
consciousness, particularly with kids."
And I thought would be a huge gift for
society if we had a whole bunch of kids
that weren't traumatized. So that's what
I wanted to do. And he said, "Yeah,
let's do that." And so I did venture
capital for climate, so businesses that
I thought could change the world. And I
thought venture capital was one of the
biggest change agents on the planet,
especially technologically. [snorts] And
then we did nonprofit for the kids. I
ran this foundation and that was the job
that I got because I was following
exactly what I wanted to do. And so for
15 years after that, I just kept on
doing those things, kept on saying yes
until one day I was like, "Oh, this
isn't feeling fulfilling anymore. This
isn't actually what I want to be doing."
And at that exact same time, enough
people were asking me to coach them that
I realized, oh, I want to say yes to
this. And that became the next purpose
in my life. Because as you evolve, your
purpose changes.
At an essential level, I always wanted
to contribute to society. And I believe
most of us do.
At a different level, there was just an
evolution that was happening. And I was
following that purpose. And that changed
everything about looking for a purpose
because purpose stopped being this
abstract. I'm going to find the answer
like it's a math problem. And it started
to be something that was experimental.
It was something that I could go in and
figure out and play with and see what I
liked and then go back look around
saying, "Oh, now I I like this. This is
the exciting thing."
So the other thing that stops you from
finding your purpose is that you're
living in the future. So in this moment
you can run this little experiment. What
is my purpose asking me to do right now?
So you can be in a meeting and you can
ask what is my purpose asking me to do
right now? You can be having dinner and
you can ask what is my purpose asking me
to do right now? And you'll notice that
there's an answer that comes through
you. Oh, my purpose is to say this. My
purpose is to do this. My purpose is to
show somebody this thing or to listen
really deeply. My purpose is here in
this moment. And if you start learning
how to follow your purpose in the
moment,
then it becomes really clear what to do
next. And that's the way the purpose
shows up. It's like a path. If you're
walking on a path in the woods
and you don't have a map, which is the
way purpose works, you don't, it's not
like really clear. This is what you're
going to do and this is how it's all
going to go and you know here's your
sixstep manual of having a purpose-
driven life. It doesn't work like that.
[snorts] You're following your path and
you know where to go when you take 10
more steps and then you know where to go
where you take 10 more steps. And so
that's how it works. And so to be really
in touch with that purpose in the moment
is what gets you really good at finding
your purpose because if you're following
it really closely, you get to where you
where it wants to bring you right away
instead of six years down the road,
seven years down the road where you're
in some mental model thinking, "Oh,
who am I then? And what will I then be
that I don't understand that wants this
other thing that I don't know what it
is?" It just doesn't work that way. It
works with like a deep sense of
presence.
The final way in which a lot of people,
maybe even you, push their purpose away
is by making it a really big deal. By
really just going, "Oh my gosh, I have
to find this thing." And so, think about
it this way. If you meet a really cute
person in the bar and you're attracted
to them and you're like, "I really need
you. I really need you. I really need
you."
That person kind of backs away, right?
they're like, "Oh, I don't want that."
And purpose does the same thing. If
you're really, really chasing it, if
you're anxious to get it, there's a way
in which you're actually pushing it
away, just like you'd be pushing away
that person at the bar. And so, it's
really important to recognize that it's
your birthright. It's not something that
you have to chase. It's something that's
already there. It's in this moment. And
you can find it by running experiments.
And it's not even finding it because
it's here in every moment. What you're
actually doing is following it. And as
you follow it instead of find it, it
leads you to a place where you all of a
sudden go, "Holy I'm living my
purpose."
And that's how it worked for me. Every
time in my life that I have this moment
of, "Oh, here I am." I look back and I
realize everything I did, the video that
I did is now helping me in this YouTube
video.
The venture capital that I did is
helping me understand how to build this
business.
Everything that I did in my past was
leading to this moment. And I know that
this is not the end. And I'll have this
moment of going, "Oh, wow. Here I am.
I'm living my purpose. I know that I
feel more fulfilled than I ever have in
the rest of my life in this moment." But
I know that if I keep on following it in
another 10 years, I'm going to have
another moment like that. Maybe even a
whole life like that of holy crap. It
just keeps on getting better. But it
doesn't get better like, "Oh, I got what
I wanted better." It gets better like,
"Holy I had no idea this was
possible better." The idea that I had in
my head for what I wanted is never as
good as what I get.
So, the best way to make this really
practical in your life is to just run
that experiment I've talked about
multiple times a day. [music] So set an
alarm two or three times a day for a
week. Ask yourself in this moment, what
would living my purpose look like? What
would I need to say or do or listen to
or understand to be living my purpose as
fully as possible in this moment? And if
you do that three times a day for a
week, you'll start noticing your purpose
appears. It like comes out of the
background and it starts showing up and
you realize, oh, it's here with me
always and it's leading me if I just
allow myself to follow it.